View this email in your browser (*|ARCHIVE|*)
Logo

Hey Humans,

This is the last of my emails! I hope you enjoyed taking this journey with me. I’m grateful that you were out there and many of you responded with great advice, thoughtful questions or encouragement.

Even those of you who were silent, but told me you read them helped! It created a level of accountability that, as a solo founder, I truly needed. It forced me to consistently form coherent plans and approaches. I frequently went back to the newsletter during the week to remind myself what I had said my priorities were. So thank you for being a part of that.

And big thanks to Bhavin, for suggesting the newsletter to begin with!

Last time, I wrote about the mistakes I made. We’re ending positive, however. I think I did some things well and am overall happy with the decision to do this.

Here is more on that!


** What went right
------------------------------------------------------------

I am very disappointed that my year of “startup” didn’t lead to a viable business. I also feel that I made some serious mistakes. At the same time, I do not regret having done this. As always, you don’t know the result of a life experiment until your deathbed, but there is evidence that suggests the experience, muscles and connections I formed will serve me in later ventures.


** I made failure an option
------------------------------------------------------------

From the beginning, I knew that 9 out of 10 startups fail and set it up so that failure would be something I could walk away from. I limited my time to 1 year to get traction, set a small budget and resisted the temptation to deviate to areas I was not passionate about. In fact, I considered the worst outcome to be getting stuck in a business I didn’t care about.

This year our family made these funky cardboard New Years Resolutions (don’t worry, I paired them with SMART goals). I’ve crossed out most of them since they’re pretty personal.

You can see that this is something I was very wary of.
https://www.sagevoice.ai

Now, I am sure some people would argue that the best way to succeed is to make it so that failure is NOT an option. Maybe if I had more skin in the game and no other options, I would have succeeded. I’ve read enough testimonials to know that winning through this state was not something I wanted to put myself or my family through.


** I pushed myself
------------------------------------------------------------

I extroverted

I knew, going into this, that in order to give this the best chance of being successful, I was going to have to do things that are socially uncomfortable and even scary: tell people about my project, ask for favors, go to networking events. This was indeed uncomfortable, but I am glad I have exercised this muscle and am no longer afraid.

I also met incredible people–many of the people on this email list, in fact. According to my Zoom logs, just digititally I met with over 150 new people! It is rare, working in my normal capacity, that I would talk to that many new people in a year.

Note: I did this while growing my hair out, which looked really, really bad. I was trying to be truer to my inner weirdo, which felt good, but it did not help my confidence…or the business.

Hence:

Hours

I really put in the hours. I wasn’t working 80 hr weeks and eating ramen–I have family obligations, but I worked as much as I possibly could and had little leisure for a year. It felt good to work hard on something. There were things I didn’t want to do and made myself do, but for the most part it didn’t feel like work–it felt like a really fun challenge. And that is kind of the high I’m searching for as a professional. How can I spend most of my time doing something that doesn’t feel like work?


** What next
------------------------------------------------------------

For those of you reading this because you’re my friend or family, you might care what happens to me next. When it came to running a startup, I had written hypotheses, a strict plan, schedule etc. So far, in figuring out my personal path, I’m far less disciplined. It took a few weeks after deciding to shut SageVoice down to fully unclench, mourn and relax in the space afforded by having no job. In that time, I caught up on family obligations, started a coding project (email client), worked on the remaining SageVoice pilot, circled back with some great people I met along the way, and reflexively applied to a few jobs. The last part was a mistake because the official job application process in tech is officially broken.

Whether my next role is a new startup, a role in product, or I try for something more technical, in this market it feels like the only way to make things happen in this environment is through networking. Rather than going to random happy hours and big events, I think finding projects to work on is going to be the best way to make real connections

In this vein, I signed up to work on a friend's coding project, am going to an age-tech hackathon next weekend, and will generally be looking for ways to get involved. Following the advice of 3 people, I’m also going to read this book, and join a job search council.

I’m very lucky that I don’t have to be in a rush here and one of the reasons I had a hard time limit on SageVoice, was to have this buffer time. My family obligations are high right now, and I am grateful I am able to attend to them and a job search without feeling too much stress. That being said, ambiguity about the future is inherently stressful. It’s taking a lot of mental energy not to jump towards a given path, just to have clarity.

So, my next goal is to have a better formulated strategy. If this newsletter was continuing, I’d be promising to share concrete thoughts next week. But it’s not!  👋


** Media Generation of the Week: SageVoice the podcast
------------------------------------------------------------

For this section, I’ve focused mainly on using AI to generate images and videos.  In 2023, Google released something that turns documents into a podcast. So I made a podcast using these newsletters as the source. It’s 12 min long and kind of amazing to hear.

Click this ⏯ (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hQE03Iv7LrFE-aaPjoIyG13JgfjxOtqw/view?usp=sharing) for the audio. They start out complimenting me and then go into all my mistakes!

It also produced a mind map and a chatbot so that I can ask questions about the journey.

Lastly, you can ask questions about what happened.  So we’ll end on a note of gratitude:

👋