View this email in your browser (*|ARCHIVE|*)
Logo

Hi-diddly-ho, Neighborino!

It’s summer time!

I’ll keep this short and won't have an update for two weeks unless something wonderful or terrible happens.  Why? I’ll be traveling next week and am also trying to be pretty heads-down.


** Navigating Disruption Paradoxes
------------------------------------------------------------

Being a new startup of a particular caliber, we are constantly straddling the margins. Meaning, we are intentionally targeting competitive areas that are borderline-viable (as I described here (https://www.linkedin.com/posts/katzjon_im-running-away-from-easy-and-its-hard-activity-7330623382863958016-WcLu?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAAAAgaYQB8RrAxyqy9iWy-StX8NfJfZFqw3Q) ), with technologies that are borderline-viable. One of the challenges of using borderline-viable technology is that it’s a very delicate balance with regard to quality.

New waves of technology tend to be good for startups. With each new wave of technology, the opportunity is always different.  AI is uniquely different.  One way that it’s different is how seriously incumbents are taking it. Tech giants are rushing to adopt it relatively early on and are showing a huge appetite for risk in the process. Apple, Google and Meta have all had embarrassing fumbles with AI recently. This is not good for startups.

What favors startups most is when “disruption” (capital D) happens. I won’t define “Disruption” here, but in this case we’re not talking about ChatGPT (a better, more expensive product), we’re talking about when AI enters areas where quality is paramount and offers a lower quality, cheaper product. With other technologies, startups are the only ones willing to try.

But because of tech giant willingness to experiment, startups are getting pushed into riskier areas. Areas where quality is even more important: Legal, medicine, and education come to mind as areas where capital-D Disruption is possible.

That is where I sit now with clinical trials and diagnostics.  As I polish our system to ensure that nothing ever goes wrong, I am reminded that this is not where the technology currently shines. It is important to carve out places within a high-quality zone where either quality matters less, or there is something or someone monitoring the quality.

Our upcoming pilot is tough. It’s a cognitive diagnostic that needs to be scored. The AI can score it with great accuracy and we’ll provide a recording and transcript for manual (or automated) auditing. However, I cannot ensure that the bot will not occasionally make mistakes in live conversations with patients.  Humans make these mistakes too, but either self-correct or don’t mention it to anyone. What is the tolerance here? How do we mediate it? Would interested researchers need to start oversubscribing and be willing to throw out a number of participants due to errors in the interview? We’re figuring it out, but there are no easy answers. Sticking to research with high volume and recruitment are obvious answers to this dilemma, but the pilot will be really informative here.


** Last week
------------------------------------------------------------
* Market Exploration and Development.
+ SageVoice demoed at a conference? I think Sachin, the lead of our upcoming pilot at Columbia presented SageVoice, including a short demo, in his talk on the future of research at a conference. I wish I knew the details…sorry.
+ Outbound blitz led to a hot new lead. We sent outbound emails to dozens of clinical trial sites and got 2 signs of interest.  1 led to a very positive demo on Thursday.  We’ll be following up this week.  They seemed really really jazzed….
+ Bite-sized demos
o Created a 2 minute demo for outbound.  Check it out:

https://youtu.be/axTbiforVZs

* Circled back to dormant conversations…which all remained dormant.

* Product Development
+ Pilot prep: I wanted to have a video or schedule a demo for the pilot site by the end of the week, but I had a couple of bugs that conspired to stop me. 😡  We’ll demo it this week I hope.
+ The client-facing dashboard is where it needs to be.  Saalem (our intern) added the ability to bulk upload patients into the system, which was the last top-priority. Now Saalem (our intern) is going to transition to other things.
+ Bugs- 2 bugs ate 1 day, which feels like a lot right now.


** Next 1.5 weeks
------------------------------------------------------------
* Market Exploration and Development.
+ Follow up with the site lead from last week and any new leads that arise from outreach.
+ Figure out next steps for outreach: Is more outreach necessary? Yes.
+ I’m looking forward to meeting up with our pilot partners at Columbia next week! It will be nice to meet in person after zooming for so long.
* Product Development
+ Pilot prep and launch:
o Demo for pilot
o Finish polishing all the tasks
o Get Saalem setup with non-dashboard priorities
+ HIPAA last mile


** Media Generation of the Week
------------------------------------------------------------

Remember this comic I made?

In the first one I didn’t realize you could tell it what to say!  So I just had it “face the camera and say something”. That led to this (prompts in the links):
https://youtu.be/Ei6eyJY25vU

I made my nose bigger in the second one and told it what to say, but it split it across me and the bot:
https://youtu.be/XGquZziTYhg

Last one, I told it to do this with a “curb your enthusiasm vibe” and got this weirdness. It’s definitely kind of silly. I’m disappointed we didn’t get the themesong.
https://youtu.be/ePFCAB2cKHM

Stay cool!

As always, questions/feedback/advice on the process or even this email is welcome!