View this email in your browser (*|ARCHIVE|*)
Logo

Hey Friends,

I hope you’re doing well! I spent too much time on this week’s update, mostly making AI-enhanced images of myself (see below), so I’m going to skip next week’s. Try to get by without hearing from me.  😢


** From execution to research mode
------------------------------------------------------------

With my basic requirements for the first pilots met, and still short of having validated revenue potential, I am going almost 100% on customer discovery in the pharma space.

Customer discovery sounds like a sales thing, but it’s actually a product thing: “Customer discovery is a process of understanding potential customers and their needs to ensure a product or service is well-aligned with market demand”


** Moving from the buffet to an entrée
------------------------------------------------------------

Last week I showed you a simplified, but still complicated diagram of the clinical trials ecosystem. I called it an “intriguing buffet”. Last Tuesday, I met with Shruti and Dave (two entrepreneurs in this space–👋 Thanks!!! ) who helped me narrow down the focus and approach.

If you start with the value proposition,

We solve interviewing subjects at scale, for clinical researchers, by offering structured interviews using AI-enabled telephone calls.

This is still pretty broad. “Telephone interviews” can do a lot. They can support participant recruitment/screening, data collection during/after a trial, promote participant engagement during a long trial, or better protocol adherence.

This is fine, when I have one customer set: principal investigators at single site studies. I can try out a bunch of value propositions and see where I get traction.

Though the more vocal problem is participant recruitment, I’ve been getting traction primarily with Data collection. More on this another time.

But in reaching the Pharmaceutical clinical trials market, I have more segments to choose from:

There are technically 16 different combinations of go-to-market. And that’s before you think about small, medium and large within those broader segments. Some don’t make sense, there is probably a lot of overlap in terms of tactics, but it’s still too much too consider.

Rather than boil the ocean to narrow down on a solution, Shruti suggested starting with the most likely one. For this, I choose Data Collection, where I am both getting the most traction and can see the makings of a moat. And I’m starting with Pharmaceuticals, because they’re the group that pays for, and usually designs the trial.

Now, I might find it’s not a fit or there’s a blocker in which case I’ll have to change tactics, but I think it’s a good place to start and certainly more actionable than reaching out to 3 segments at once with 4 different offerings.

If you start with the value proposition,

We solve data collection, for clinical trials, by offering structured interviews using AI-enabled telephone calls.

Also, isn’t this design pretty?  New logo in the making…


** Last week
------------------------------------------------------------
* Market Development

I honestly didn’t do nearly as much here as I wanted to- partly because of the pilot (see next item) hitting full gear and requiring analysis, some fixes, and support.
* Deep and wide dive into “pharma”.
+ 1 ‘interview’ this week, really helpful.

* Pilot update.
+ I have a biggish pilot scheduled to start in the next two weeks (250 participants, weekly calls for a year…). They reached out with an ominous message about changes in plans. I am meeting with them this afternoon. 🤞

* First pilot
+ The first pilot hit high gear and mostly wrapped up this week!
+ It was small, but still revealed a lot of issues that needed to be fixed.
o Status dashboard: when you have 1-2 calls a day it’s easy to manage, but beyond that, calls need to be categorized as completed, voicemail, interrupted, etc…and we need a dashboard showing the status of each patient.
o We also saw gaps in how people approach the AI: they were treating it like an IVR, when it is much more capable than that. That can likely be fixed with some introductory material.
+ I fixed some things, and we made a list of the things to tackle before the next one.
* Product development
+ Limited to things that came up through the pilot.
+ Minor
o Testing
o Fix for a rare, but bad audio issue and some weird verbiage that pops up sometimes.


** This week
------------------------------------------------------------
* Market Development
+ I’m pushing hard here. I have a bunch of outreach scheduled for Monday and Tuesday. The ambitious goal is 10 interviews for the following week.
* End of week, limited: Product development
+ I want to limit that this week, since it is always more appealing than outreach.
+ During the pilot, we discovered an infrequent, but serious issue
o A couple patients picked up the phone with the TV or radio on. The audio model I use cannot distinguish between background and primary voices, so if the TV is on, the bot thinks you’re talking and never says anything.
o There is 1 (just one!) product on the market that is good at this. It’s called Krisp. They charge a minimum of $5k a year, which is not crazy for a company with throughput, but for me, it’s a lot. I might have to make some major infrastructure changes to use them affordably… we’ll see. Right now the biggest issue is market development, so I’m going to limit this.


** Media Generation of the Week
------------------------------------------------------------

I’ve shown you how Stock image services now let you change the race of the people in an image, or even add people to an image. However, the latest promise is that you can have continuity across your ads, basically the same person in different situations. “Historically” stock imagery AI has not enabled you to have the same person in multiple images, which could be important for consistent messaging.

So I tried this out, by very lazily uploading 30+ images of me to create the character for the ads named “Jon”.

Admittedly, I included a few without me, but it still did a decent job with my face.

It sucks for other reasons.

I then tried to test the limits of what it can do by putting myself in situations I will never get a picture of. It failed in interesting ways.

I will never win the superbowl

@jon just won the superbowl and is dancing on the field with his helmet off

In almost all versions of this, the AI just replaced me with a black guy. Which is probably not the AI ‘being intentionally racist’, so much as a reflection of the images it was trained on. There has been a lot of controversy about this sort of thing (link (https://www.axios.com/2024/03/01/meta-ai-google-gemini-black-founding-fathers) )

I will never fight Nazis armed only with a shankbone

@jon is fighting nazis, barechested with a shank bone as his only weapon.

This kind of looks like me, but I’m much fitter in real life.
No Nazis, no shankbone, guy with cut-off jean shorts and sun glasses in the background. These are fun, it’s like those old kid magazine picture puzzles “spot the silly things!”

I will never ring the opening bell of the stock exchange

@jon is ringing in the stock exchange, surrounded by adoring acolytes

Okay, that vaguely looks like me…but I’m surrounded by copies of me and I’m not opening up the exchange. Maybe I phrased this wrong.

I will never be a rock star

@jon has sideburns and a beard and is playing guitar at Woodstock

These turned out okay. Maybe it picked up on my rock star vibe.

The same prompt led to a coffee house version of me and, sadly, the most accurate looking. The hat is awful.

I will never get the presidential medal of freedom

@jon is being awarded the presidential medal of honor by Barack Obama in the whitehouse. Both are smiling as Barack's fingers linger on the ribbon

Okay, in this one they made me look much older. I guess old people win this?

And a classic AI-crapping-it’s-pants” image…in this one the ribbon is floating in mid-air.  Maybe I win the medal for magic tricks 🪄.

I wasn’t joking when I said I spent too much time on this!

As always, questions/feedback/advice on the process or even this email is welcome!